\input texinfo
@setfilename voodoo.info
@settitle VooDooDriver Manual

@titlepage
@title VooDooDriver Manual
@author Jonathan duSaint @email{jdusaint@@sugarcrm.com}
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top VooDooDriver Manual
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Invocation::
* Test Script Format::
@end menu

@node Invocation
@chapter Invocation

The VooDooDriver package consists of two jar files, VooDooDriver.jar
and VDDReporter.jar.  VooDooDriver itself is in VooDooDriver.jar, and
VDDReporter, a postprocessor for VooDooDriver results is in
VDDReporter.jar.

@menu
* VooDooDriver::
* VDDReporter::
@end menu

@node VooDooDriver,,,Invocation
@section VooDooDriver


@subsection Command Line Arguments


@node VDDReporter,,,Invocation
@section VDDReporter

@subsection Command Line Arguments



@node Test Script Format
@chapter Test Script Format

@menu
* Suite Files::
* Test Files::
* Accessor Attributes::
* Action Attributes::
* VooDooDriver Events::
* HTML Events::
@end menu

Each VooDooDriver test script is an XML file.  The root element is
<voodoo>.  Depending on the type of the script, suite or test, the
type attribute of <voodoo> is ``suite'' or ``test'', respectively.

@node Suite Files
@section Suite Files

@node Test Files
@section Test Files

@node Accessor Attributes
@section Accessor Attributes

Accessor attributes provide a means for VooDooDriver events to specify
the HTML element to which they refer.  There are several different
ways to search for elements, all of which are directly related both to
the Selenium API, and to the DOM itself.

@menu
* class::
* css::
* id::
* index::
* method::
* name::
* text::
* title::
* url::
* value::
* xpath::
@end menu

@node class,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection class

Search for an HTML element by its CSS class name.

@node css,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection css

Search for an HTML element by its CSS selector.

@node id,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection id

Search for an HTML element by its ID.

@node index,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection index

Assuming more than one element of an event type is on the page, match
the specified element in the list, using the specified zero-based
index.

@node method,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection method

Eh?

@node name,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection name

Search for an HTML element by name.

@node text,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection text

Search for an HTML element by its link text.  Eh?

@node title,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection title

The title of a browser window.  This attribute is used only by <browser>.

@node url,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection url

The URL of a web page.

@node value,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection value

Search for an HTML element by its value.  Eh?

@node xpath,,,Accessor Attributes
@subsection xpath

Search for an HTML element using its XPATH.  This method is not very
portable across browser implementations.

@node Action Attributes
@section Action Attributes

Action attributes describe what to do during an event with the matched
HTML element.

@menu
* append::
* assert::
* assertnot::
* clear::
* click::
* cssprop::
* cssvalue::
* default::
* disabled::
* exists::
* exist::
* jscriptevent::
* jswait::
* required::
* save::
* set::
* timeout::
* var::
@end menu

@node append,,,Action Attributes
@subsection append

@node assert,,,Action Attributes
@subsection assert

@node assertnot,,,Action Attributes
@subsection assertnot

@node clear,,,Action Attributes
@subsection clear

@node click,,,Action Attributes
@subsection click

@node cssprop,,,Action Attributes
@subsection cssprop

@node cssvalue,,,Action Attributes
@subsection cssvalue

@node default,,,Action Attributes
@subsection default

@node disabled,,,Action Attributes
@subsection disabled

@node exists,,,Action Attributes
@subsection exists

@node exist,,,Action Attributes
@subsection exist

@node jscriptevent,,,Action Attributes
@subsection jscriptevent

@node required,,,Action Attributes
@subsection required

@node save,,,Action Attributes
@subsection save

@node set,,,Action Attributes
@subsection set

@node timeout,,,Action Attributes
@subsection timeout

@node var,,,Action Attributes
@subsection var


@c ===========================================================================

@node VooDooDriver Events
@section VooDooDriver Events

Several events do not correspond to HTML elements, but rather to
events within VooDooDriver itself.  These events are described in this
section.

@menu
* attach::
* browser::
* csv::
* delete::
* dnd::
* execute::
* javaplugin::
* javascript::
* pluginloader::
* puts::
* screenshot::
* script::
* timestamp::
* var: var-event
* wait::
* whitelist::
@end menu

@node attach,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection attach

When a new browser window pops up, such as after clicking a control,
this event directs all events nested within the <attach> event to
execute in the context of the new browser window.

@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@item title (@pxref{title})
@item url (@pxref{url})
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

None.

@subsubsection Example

@example
<button id="new-window"/>     <!-- Button that opens a new window -->
<attach title="New Window">   <!-- Attach to that new window -->
   <button id="save"/>        <!-- Some action within that window -->
   <browser action="close"/>  <!-- Close the new window -->
</attach>                     <!-- Resume in old window -->
@end example

@node browser,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection browser


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node csv,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection csv


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node delete,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection delete


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node dnd,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection dnd


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node execute,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection execute


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node javaplugin,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection javaplugin


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node javascript,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection javascript


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node pluginloader,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection pluginloader


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node puts,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection puts


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node screenshot,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection screenshot


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example


@node script,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection script


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example


@node timestamp,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection timestamp

Timestamp updates VooDooDriver's internal timestamp variable.  This
variable 

Valid Accessor Attributes:

None.

Valid Action Attributes:

None.

@node var-event,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection var


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node wait,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection wait


@subsubsection Valid Accessor Attributes

@itemize @bullet
@end itemize

@subsubsection Valid Action Attributes

@subsubsection Example

@example
@end example

@node whitelist,,,VooDooDriver Events
@subsection whitelist


@c ===========================================================================

@node HTML Events
@section HTML Events

HTML events are the core of VooDooDriver.  Each event corresponds to
an HTML tag in the page under test.


@menu
Document Body Structure Events
* div::
* span::
* h1::
* h2::
* h3::
* h4::
* h5::
* h6::

Text Events
* p::
* pre::

List Events
* ul::
* ol::
* li::
* dl::
* dt::
* dd::

Table Events
* table::
* caption::
* thead::
* tbody::
* tfoot::
* colgroup::
* col::
* tr::
* th::
* td::

Link Events
* link::

Object, Image, and Applet Events
* image::
* object::
* map::
* area::

Frame Events
* iframe::
* frame::

Form Events
* form::
* input::
* textfield::
* password::
* checkbox::
* radio::
* button::
* filefield::
* hidden::
* select::
* textarea::
* label::
@end menu

@node div,,,HTML Events
@subsection div

@node span,,,HTML Events
@subsection span

@node h1,,,HTML Events
@subsection h1

@node h2,,,HTML Events
@subsection h2

@node h3,,,HTML Events
@subsection h3

@node h4,,,HTML Events
@subsection h4

@node h5,,,HTML Events
@subsection h5

@node h6,,,HTML Events
@subsection h6

@node p,,,HTML Events
@subsection p

@node pre,,,HTML Events
@subsection pre

@node ul,,,HTML Events
@subsection ul

@node ol,,,HTML Events
@subsection ol

@node li,,,HTML Events
@subsection li

@node dl,,,HTML Events
@subsection dl

Not implemented.  File a bug if you need this functionality.

@node dt,,,HTML Events
@subsection dt

Not implemented.  File a bug if you need this functionality.

@node dd,,,HTML Events
@subsection dd

Not implemented.  File a bug if you need this functionality.

@node table,,,HTML Events
@subsection table

@node caption,,,HTML Events
@subsection caption

Not implemented.  File a bug if you need this functionality.

@node thead,,,HTML Events
@subsection thead

@node tbody,,,HTML Events
@subsection tbody

@node tfoot,,,HTML Events
@subsection tfoot

Not implemented.  File a bug if you need this functionality.

@node colgroup,,,HTML Events
@subsection colgroup

Not implemented.  File a bug if you need this functionality.

@node col,,,HTML Events
@subsection col

Not implemented.  File a bug if you need this functionality.

@node tr,,,HTML Events
@subsection tr

@node th,,,HTML Events
@subsection th

Not implemented.  File a bug if you need this functionality.

@node td,,,HTML Events
@subsection td

@node link,,,HTML Events
@subsection link

@node image,,,HTML Events
@subsection image

@node object,,,HTML Events
@subsection object

Not implemented.  File a bug if you need this functionality.

@node map,,,HTML Events
@subsection map

@node area,,,HTML Events
@subsection area

@node iframe,,,HTML Events
@subsection iframe

@node frame,,,HTML Events
@subsection frame

@node form,,,HTML Events
@subsection form

@node input,,,HTML Events
@subsection input

@node textfield,,,HTML Events
@subsection textfield

@node password,,,HTML Events
@subsection password

@node checkbox,,,HTML Events
@subsection checkbox

@node radio,,,HTML Events
@subsection radio

@node button,,,HTML Events
@subsection button

@node filefield,,,HTML Events
@subsection filefield

@node hidden,,,HTML Events
@subsection hidden

@node select,,,HTML Events
@subsection select

@node textarea,,,HTML Events
@subsection textarea

@node label,,,HTML Events
@subsection label


@bye
